Add the "writing a good package page" page (#3147)
dart-lang/site-www: src/_guides/libraries/writing-package-pages.md

description: Learn how to write a good package page.
---

This document describes what you can do to construct a good package page on pub.dev. More specifically, this document provides several tips on how to write a better README.md file, as marked in the following image. If you need more information about other parts of the package page, refer to the links below. 

{% asset libraries/package-page-sections.png alt="package page contains sections like package layout, flutter favorite, package scoring, verified publishers, pubspec file" %}

1. About the [package layout ](https://dart.dev/tools/pub/package-layout)
2. About the [Flutter Favorite program](https://flutter.dev/docs/development/packages-and-plugins/favorites)
3. About the [package scoring system](https://pub.dev/help/scoring)
4. About [verified publishers](https://dart.dev/tools/pub/verified-publishers)
5. About the [pubspec file](https://dart.dev/tools/pub/pubspec)

## Writing a good README is important

Most package users who landed on your package on pub.dev will quickly scan your README to decide whether to try your package or not. A nice README will catch users’ attention and show that your package is worth trying.

> There are seven tips that you can follow to write a good README. 

Reviewer: I'm curious if it is worth mentioning that it may be better to not include a Markdown title in the README as otherwise it will appear multiple times on pub.dev. Many of the Dart team's packages previously removed theirs as a result of this. An example of a package that still does include a Markdown title though is [dartdoc](https://pub.dev/packages/dartdoc). There is an [pub.dev issue](https://github.com/dart-lang/pub-dev/issues/3238) tracking automatic removal of these, but it seems to be on hold.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/18372958/114804178-8182f380-9d66-11eb-9780-e7c1a49693e0.png)

Reviewer 2: This is mentioned at the end of the first paragraph of tip 1, but it's easy to miss. I'll think about what to do...

According to our user research, package users spend only a few seconds to read the package description and make a decision whether to read the rest of the README or not. Thus, you should concisely describe what the package does or achieves, at a glance. Spend some time to craft a short and sweet description and help the user to make decisions. There’s no need to write the package name again on the top. 

See examples of good descriptions below.

*   A Flutter plugin for showing rainbows.
*   This plugin allows Flutter apps to categorize bird sounds using machine learning.

If there is important information users should know about, such as project status or constraints, note that at the top too. 

*   Does not work on iOS versions below 10.3.

If you have any badges, put them under the description or anywhere high on the page as well. 

The package [in\_app\_purchase](https://pub.dev/packages/in_app_purchase) starts its README with a brief explanation of the package and a caution.

{% asset libraries/package-page-description.png alt="description of the package in_app_purchase" %}

### 2. Include visual content to explain things

> UI is difficult to explain in text. If your package page is just a “wall of text” with no visual content, users may find it intimidating. In that case, it is very likely that package searchers skip your package without reading the README. Place visual content such as images, gifs, movs close to the beginning of the README, so that users can easily find them and use them. (Movs or gifs are even better than static images!) 

Reviewer: Perhaps a generic term like "video" rather than "mov" would be better, since more people will likely understand and I believe at least GitHub supports other container formats besides mov. Both are fine though :)

---
title: Writing package pages
description: Learn how to write a good package page.
---

<style>
  .screenshot, .screenshot-narrow {
    width: 90%;
    align-content: center;
    border-style: solid;
    border-width: 1px;
    border-color: lightgray;
    padding: 10px
  }

  .screenshot-narrow {
    max-width: 400px;
  }
</style>

This document describes what you can do to
construct a good package page on pub.dev.
More specifically, this document provides several tips on
how to write a better README.md file,

> as marked in the following image.

Reviewer 2: Can you redo this figure? Two reasons:

* It doesn't include the title **url_launcher** in the area of **This document**, but that text _is_ provided by the README.
* It shows the title **url_launcher**. 😆  We probably want to show a better example, no?

Could we use in_app_purchase, yaml, or another nicely done package page?

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we should change "This document" to "README file (this document)"

Author: The label "this document" is updated. And I replaced the image with `shared_preferences` page, which has a title `Shared preferences plugin`. Would this work?

Otherwise, we'll have to update one of the package's readme and retry. All the 1P Flutter Favorite packages have some sort of titles in the body, ironically :P

Reviewer 2: I'll take another look Monday

If you need more information about other parts of the package page,
refer to the links below. 

{% asset libraries/package-page-sections.png alt="package page contains sections like package layout, flutter favorite, package scoring, verified publishers, pubspec file" class="screenshot" %}

> 1. About the [package layout ](https://dart.dev/tools/pub/package-layout)
> 2. About the [Flutter Favorite program](https://flutter.dev/docs/development/packages-and-plugins/favorites)
> 3. About the [package scoring system](https://pub.dev/help/scoring)
> 4. About [verified publishers](https://dart.dev/tools/pub/verified-publishers)
> 5. About the [pubspec file](https://dart.dev/tools/pub/pubspec)

Reviewer 2: Let's put the description down here, closer to the links, and make the link text match the figure labels exactly:

```suggestion
For details about other parts of the package page,
follow these links:

1. [Package layout ](https://dart.dev/tools/pub/package-layout)
2. [Flutter Favorite](https://flutter.dev/docs/development/packages-and-plugins/favorites)
3. [Package scoring](https://pub.dev/help/scoring)
4. [Verified publishers](https://dart.dev/tools/pub/verified-publishers)
5. [Pubspec file](https://dart.dev/tools/pub/pubspec)
```

Author: Yes! Making commits sounds good to me. Thank you :D

### 1. Write a short description at the top of the README

According to our user research,
package users spend only a few seconds to
read the package description and make a decision whether to
read the rest of the README or not.
Thus, you should concisely describe what the package does or achieves,
at a glance.
Spend some time to craft a short and sweet description and
help the user to make decisions.
There’s no need to write the package name again on the top. 

See examples of good descriptions below.

*   A Flutter plugin for showing rainbows.
*   This plugin allows Flutter apps to categorize bird sounds using machine learning.

If there is important information users should know about,
such as project status or constraints, note that at the top too. 

*   Does not work on iOS versions below 10.3.

If you have any badges, put them under the description or
anywhere high on the page as well. 

The package [`in_app_purchase`][]
starts its README with a brief explanation of the package and a caution.

{% asset libraries/package-page-description.png alt="description of the package in_app_purchase" class="screenshot" %}

### 2. Include visual content to explain things

> UI is difficult to explain in text.

Reviewer 2: This makes it seem like visual content is only useful for UI-related plugins. I'll think about how to fix it...

If your package page is just a “wall of text” with no visual content,
users may find it intimidating.
In that case, it is very likely that
package searchers skip your package without reading the README.
Place visual content such as images, gifs, movs
close to the beginning of the README,
so that users can easily find them and use them.

> (Movs or gifs are even better than static images!) 

Reviewer 2: Why are they better? Because they grab users' attention? Because users prefer them? Because they can convey more? (I'd like to be more specific here.)

Also, might you use an MP4 instead of a MOV?

Reviewer 2: I'm thinking of saying something like this:

>  Tip: Prefer animated GIFs and videos, when you have a choice. They can be more effective than static images for attracting readers and conveying information.

Author: I like the new phrasing! 

Yeah, I'd say that UIs are not static in most cases (they're animated or they respond to user input), so videos or gifs are better in those cases, in terms of conveying information about the package. MP4 works too. :)

*   Key features of the package
*   Parameters, attributes, or properties
*   Unusual requirements 
*   Things that are out of scope of your package
*   Content of longer pages or sections (just like this list)

#### List key features of the package 

First of all, clearly list what your package can do.
Some users might be looking for a very specific feature in your package.
Help those users find out whether your package supports their needs or not.
You may use tables, too.

{% asset libraries/package-page-features-list.png alt="list of features of the package in_app_purchase" class="screenshot" %}

{% asset libraries/package-page-features-table.png alt="list of features of the package just_audio in a table format" class="screenshot-narrow" %}

#### List parameters, attributes, or properties

You can also consider listing parameters, attributes, or properties
for their quick reference.
See the example below.

{% asset libraries/package-page-list-property.png alt="list of supported schemes of the package url_launcher" class="screenshot" %}

Linking specific functions or classes to those in dartdoc can be useful too.
See [async](https://pub.dev/packages/async) package for

> an example of linking dartdocs.

Reviewer 2: Yikes, these links aren't working!

Author: @jonasfj Do you know when the new version is going to be published?

Reviewer 2: Filed https://github.com/dart-lang/async/issues/168

Reviewer 3: I think we just need to publish it...

should also be near the top.
For example:

*   `Does not work on iOS versions below 10.3.`

Here's a screenshot of the [`in_app_purchase`][] package page,
which starts with a brief explanation of the package and a caution.

{% asset libraries/package-page-description.png alt="description of the package in_app_purchase" class="screenshot" %}

[Badges][] are often near the top of the README,
either above or under the short description. 

### 2. Include visual content {#tip2}

If your package page is a wall of text with no visual content,
users might find it intimidating and stop reading.
Images are especially important if your package supports UI,
but they're also useful for explaining important concepts.
Either way, visual content can help users
feel confident about using the package.

Place visual content such as static images, animated GIFs, and
videos (such as MOV or MP4 files)
close to the beginning of the README,
where users are likely to see them.

{{site.alert.tip}}
  Prefer animated GIFs and videos for UI-related content,
  because most UIs aren't static,
  and animation conveys more information about the UI's behavior.
{{site.alert.end}}

The screenshots below show how

> adding visual content made the `in_app_purchase` package page look better.

Reviewer: Maybe instead of saying it looks `better`, we could be a bit more specific. Something more targetted such as `more informative`, `more fleshed out`, `more engaging`, or similar (I'm not really sure) to better indicate how it is "better".

Author: What about "look informative at first glance"? :)

yours might not need to be as large or detailed.
If your package is simple and has no associated UI,
its README might look more like the one for the [`yaml`][] package. 

## Seven tips for good README

Here are some suggestions for creating a README
that works well on pub.dev:

1. [Put a short description at the top](#tip1)
2. [Include visual content](#tip2)
3. [Use lists to present key information](#tip3)
4. [Include usage examples](#tip4)
5. [Use Dart code formatting](#tip5)
6. [Mention related terms](#tip6)
7. [Tell users where to go next](#tip7)

### 1. Put a short description at the top {#tip1}

According to our user research,
package users spend only a few seconds to
read the package description and decide whether to
read the rest of the README.
Thus, you should concisely describe what the package does or achieves,
at a glance.
Spend some time to craft a short and sweet description and
help the user to make decisions.

{{site.alert.tip}}
  Don't write the package name again at the top.
  It's already visible in the pub.dev UI.
{{site.alert.end}}

Here are some examples of good descriptions:

*   `A Flutter plugin for showing rainbows.`

> *   `Use machine learning to categorize bird sounds.`

Reviewer: It's a plane...it's super man...it's a round hummingbird...it's dash!

Reviewer 2: It's Mega-Dash! 😆
